The job market in this relatively new industry seems to be flourishing like no other industry. Sharing his views on the employment scenario in his industry, Rajiv Srivatsa, COO and co-founder, Urban Ladder says, "There are plenty of opportunities available because the industry is young and evolving continuously. Profiles and job descriptions that never existed have been created specifically for this industry and people are getting a chance to innovate and explore new opportunities since there aren't any set rules and there is a lot of learning along the way."

Kathuria adds, "This is an ideal industry for people who are fast-paced, fuelled by passion, highly creative and for whom comfort is not a priority. I believe for creative-enthusiasts and geeks, it is fascinating to work in ecommerce. Moreover, there is a positive growth outlook for this sector."

According to Malhotra, hiring activities are expected to grow by over 30% in this sector and may help create upto 50,000 employment opportunities in the next two to three years. "Tier-1 BTech and MBA grads mostly join us from IITs and IIMs. As per a study by Nielsen, today, almost one-fourth of MBA students from across India's toptier business schools, including the IIMs, said they would prefer working for the fledgling e-commerce sector, over traditional favourites like consulting and financial services jobs," he shares.

Further discussing the kind of career prospects and opportunities professionals can look at in this industry, and the hottest jobs available, Aloke Bajpai, CEO and co-founder, ixigo.com avers, "The e-commerce industry is currently witnessing an upsurge in growth and this is the right time for aspiring individuals to turn to this industry. While there is always a demand for solid web app developers and quality experts; content writers, graphic designers and digital marketers also have a huge role to play."

The industry is growing at a rapid pace. And this means that the growth opportunities in this industry would be ample too. Srivatsa points out, "Most of successful e-commerce companies have started out as small three-four member teams, but have grown into 1000+ member organisations today. This has given a lot of employees the exposure and growth they would have found impossible to achieve in more established companies where hierarchy and experience take precedence over talent."




1. eCommerce has a fantastic long-term global growth outlook.

The total market today is huge – over $1Trillion and predicted to grow at 17% per year. And we are just at the beginning of the beginning. Online selling is well established in the US, but there are immense growth opportunities left in emerging markets. The burgeoning eCommerce market in China now delivers sales of $1 billion – per day. Imagine how eCommerce will continue to boom as India, Brazil, Russia, Southeast Asia and other emerging markets catch eCommerce fever?

Mobile commerce is just a few years old and is already capturing 20% of eCommerce sales. Guess what happens to eCommerce as tablets and smart phones sweep the world in the next 10 years? So, whether eCommerce becomes your long-term love affair or not, spending three years there can give you skills and experience that will be in red-hot demand for at least the next 15 years.

2. eCommerce teaches you to think like a General Manager.

I cannot think of any other profession that is such an intense microcosm of all the fundamental skills of business. eCommerce exposes you to product marketing, supply chain, pricing and profit management, customer acquisition, cross-selling, up-selling, customer service and much more. So many jobs let you see a little piece of the puzzle, but never the whole enterprise at work. When I hire for my company, I love to see eCommerce experience on the resume. It means I am looking at a business person who knows how to make the cash register ring.

3. eCommerce gives you a “feel” for Customers.

In addition to all the hard business skills, an early career in eCommerce can hone your “soft skills.” eCommerce encourages a deep appreciation for the value of Brand Experience and Customer Experience. It makes you a better storyteller. It forces you to take a customer-centered view of the world. It exposes you to not only what customers say they’ll do, but to what they actually do. Increasingly, it will illuminate the connection between consumers’ shopping behavior and their social behavior. These are outstanding skills in the art of Marketing to build early in a career.

4. eCommerce accelerates your learning curve by giving you access to real-time results data.

Many companies have lost the art of testing. They are not great places to learn. Some businesses do lots of disciplined testing and learning but it takes a really long time to accumulate actionable results (Procter & Gamble was like this when I worked there). eCommerce gives you the chance to do lots of testing, and you get a report card back from the customer every day if not every minute. This real-time feedback loop accelerates your Marketing learning curve exponentially.

5. eCommerce might make a difference in your life, not just your day job.

Some day in some way it’s going to be pretty damn handy that you paid your dues in eCommerce. Maybe you want to promote your band. Or help raise money for your favorite charity. Or start up your own company. Or turn your favorite hobby into an extra source of income. Being smart at eCommerce is something practical and relevant that can last a lifetime.

So, there are my five reasons. It’s the advice I give to new recruits, aspiring hotshot MBAs and my own kids. Are you sold? Tell me what you think . . .
So, if you are looking at having the hottest job at the coolest workplace and have the passion to do something different and think laterally, e-commerce is the place to be! 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Kathuria concurs, "E-commerce offers a dynamic work environment. It exposes a professional to all the powerful core essentials of a business functioning like product marketing, supply chain, pricing and profit management, customer acquisition, crossselling, up-selling, customer service and much more. Not many jobs present that holistic picture. Globally, the sector is booming and is expected to grow to $675 billion by 2016." Moreover, not only does the e-commerce industry have the hottest jobs in present times, but also the coolest work environment.

Bajpai asserts that e-commerce companies typically exhibit an informal working culture, with lower levels of hierarchy in comparison to traditional industries and MNCs. "E-commerce is a fast-paced industry, which rewards those companies that are able to rapidly pivot to exploit changing trends. Thus, prospective candidates must display great communication skills, flexibility and enthusiasm for the constant innovativeness that is required in this industry," he explains.


